<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
			<p>It happened the next morning that Linda ran out of sugar, discovering her predicament only a few minutes before Miss Cramp‚Äôs breakfast was to be served. There were, of course, no grocery stores within three blocks of exclusive Court Avenue, and while ordinarily Miss Cramp would have waited without complaint till the errand was run, today the situation was awkward: Miss Cramp had company, a lady from Baltimore, Maryland; a friend, to be sure, but a friend whose breakfast must not be delayed by the delinquencies of a colored maid.</p>
			<p>Linda, therefore, following professional tradition, resolved to borrow sufficient from her next-door neighbor to tide over the temporary lack, and was already on the kitchen-porch going to the Irish girl next door, when she saw a Negro woman beating rugs in the back yard of the second house. She had her own curiosity about that particular house, because she had overheard Miss Cramp and the present guest discussing it, and she decided that this was her chance at an opening that would satisfy that curiosity. She would borrow the sugar from the colored woman.</p>
			<p>It was thus that she made the acquaintance of Fred Merrit‚Äôs housekeeper, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝArabella Fuller.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDrop in any time,‚Äù invited <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller, who was a genial, lonesome soul, not too insistent on the social distinctions between housekeepers and maids, and who would apparently have had more to say had Linda been less obviously pressed for time.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThanks,‚Äù smiled Linda. ‚ÄúThis afternoon. My folks are going to a show.‚Äù</p>
			<p>And so that afternoon found her and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller conversing in the Merrit kitchen with all the ease and confidence of a much more extended friendship.</p>
			<p>Without conscious effort <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝArabella Fuller would have arrested any cartoonist‚Äôs attention. Her profile was a series of adjoining semicircles‚ÅÝ‚Äîa large one for the bulbous forehead, then a succession of smaller, approximately equal ones, forming from above downward nose, upper lip, lower lip, first chin, and second chin. From above downward, moreover, this series slanted unanimously rearward, so that the forehead bulged and the chins receded, and the general attitude was that of one caught in the act of swallowing half a banana.</p>
			<p>This profile only stated the motif on which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller as a whole was composed. Every outline of every part was a perfect semicircle, and so on integration she naturally became a cluster of hemispheres. There were, to be sure, unanticipatedly sudden constrictions about her at points: between chins, for example, at wrists, at waist, and at ankles. But these repressions were futile, for on either side of each constriction the flesh triumphantly bulged. They simply heightened the lady‚Äôs agglomerate bulbosity.</p>
			<p>Out of the midst of this there escaped on occasion, an asthmatic wheeze. This confab was such an occasion, and it revealed at once that the asthma in no wise discouraged <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller‚Äôs flow of language.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, indeed, chile. Any time you want anything like that jes‚Äô come right on over and get it‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe always has plenty ev‚Äôything on hand. Thass one thing about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMerrit‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe sho believes in eatin‚Äô. Reckon thass why he so thin. And it makes him mad as a wet hen to run out‚Äôn anything and thass why I always has plenty ev‚Äôything on hand. So anytime you run out, jes‚Äô come on over and I‚Äôll trust you to keep ‚Äôcount o‚Äô ev‚Äôything you get.‚Äù She fanned her shining round brown face with a limp dishcloth and smiled as she paused for breath. The smile revealed a shining row of white teeth, each of them just half a circle.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs nice here,‚Äù Linda observed, looking about.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôDeed it is. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMerrit‚Äôs such a nice man to work fo‚Äô. ‚ÄôCose he have his big times and so on, and he like his toddy now‚Äôn then a little too good, and ev‚Äôy once in a while he gets tied up with some woman ‚Äônother, but ‚Äôcose thass natural, him bein‚Äô a bachelor and havin‚Äô so much money. I jes‚Äô shets my eyes and says nothin‚Äô, ‚Äôcause ‚Äôtain‚Äôt none my business, and he ain‚Äô never said nothin‚Äô out the way to <em>me</em>, y‚Äô understand, so I jes‚Äô do my work and go on. You know how ‚Äôtis‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou mus‚Äô see and don‚Äô see.‚Äù There was another reluctant pause.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIndeed so,‚Äù agreed Linda, already somewhat apprehensive at the conflict in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller‚Äôs speech. It appeared that while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller‚Äôs labored respiration sought to shorten her sentences, her sentences had a will of their own and simply refused to be shortened. Linda already found herself drawing deep sympathetic, but wholly useless breaths.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôCose there‚Äôs a lot o‚Äô folks what don‚Äô like to work fo‚Äô colored, I understand that, and I don‚Äô know as I would myse‚Äôf if it had to be some these uppity colored women what ain‚Äô never been used to nothin‚Äô and jes‚Äô now got sump‚Äôn and think they so much mo‚Äô n‚Äô eve‚Äôybody else. Take fo‚Äô ‚Äôn instant that Sarah Bell Long, what‚Äôs always ridin‚Äô ‚Äôround in Cornelia Bond‚Äôs auto. I knowed her when she was a baby‚ÅÝ‚Äîknowed her father and mother before ‚Äôer. Neither one of ‚Äôem wasn‚Äôt nothin‚Äô. Ole man Bell run a saloon in Augusta till he made enough to buy up half the black belt; then he retired, got religious, gave d‚Äô church a lot o‚Äô money and got hisse‚Äôf preached into d‚Äô kingdom and his wife along with ‚Äôim. Then this Sarah gal married this young doctor‚ÅÝ‚Äîleast, he was then‚ÅÝ‚Äîand set him up in business, and when they got tired livin‚Äô down there ‚Äôcause some them women liked his treatment too well, why they up and comes to New York. And havin‚Äô plenty money natchelly they starts right out at the top. But I always say the top ain‚Äô but a little way from the bottom‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan‚Äôt be‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äôtain‚Äô been risin‚Äô long enough. And ain‚Äô none of us so much better‚Äôn the rest of us that we can afford to get uppity ‚Äôbout it‚ÅÝ‚ÄîAnd thass why I jes‚Äô couldn‚Äô stand workin‚Äô ‚Äôround nobody that act that way. Ain‚Äô no sense in it. But <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFred ain‚Äô like that. Ain‚Äô nobody in Harlem got no better things ‚Äôn <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFred is, and some them things up in the country he brought back with ‚Äôim all the way from Europe and France and them places ‚Äôway yonder ‚Äôcross the water. You‚Äôll see ‚Äôem when they get hyeh‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe always have ‚Äôem sent in town fo‚Äô the winter. An ain‚Äô nobody in New York got nothin‚Äô no better, but it don‚Äôt turn his head none. Look like he jes‚Äô buy things to spend his money on and when he get ‚Äôem that ends it. All ‚Äôceptin‚Äô one thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîa picture of his mother. Least, I think it mus‚Äô be his mother, though he ain‚Äô never tole me so, but he stands and looks at that picture fo‚Äô hours at a time, seems like. I b‚Äôlieve ‚Äôtwould near ‚Äôbout kill ‚Äôim to lose it. But he sho‚Äô is a nice man to work fo‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äîdon‚Äô never bother you ‚Äôbout nothin‚Äô.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Linda decided it would be less exhausting to do some of the talking herself. She hastened to inject at this pause, ‚ÄúI should think it would be nice, working for a man, anyhow. Bet he isn‚Äôt fussy ‚Äôn‚Äô everything like an old woman‚ÅÝ‚Äîspecially an old maid. Gee!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYo‚Äô madam ain‚Äô never had a husband of her own?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUh‚ÅÝ‚Äîuh.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow come she ain‚Äôt?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGuess she never knew whether a man wanted her or her money.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat diff‚Äôrunce that make?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I guess she figured if he <em>did</em> want it, she didn‚Äôt want <em>him</em>, and if he <em>didn‚Äôt</em> want it, there must be something wrong with him. That just made the whole thing sorter hopeless.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe nice to work fo‚Äô?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Linda saw that the way to prevent <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller from talking herself to death was to keep her asking questions. ‚ÄúWell,‚Äù she answered, ‚Äúshe could be worse. Nicest part is she lives all alone and that makes the work light. But she get sick over the least little thing and she spends a lot o‚Äô time in bed. She just got over a three weeks‚Äô spell yesterday‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly reason she got up was because this friend from Baltimore was coming last night. You can‚Äôt imagine what made her sick this time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs this visitor a gen‚Äôleman friend?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNope.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen what?‚Äù Linda could sense that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller was merely nosing for an opening through which she could break for a long unobstructed run of speech.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe found out that your boss was a jig, and it put her in bed for three weeks. I didn‚Äôt know what the trouble was till last night and I heard her talking to this Baltimore woman. The way she‚Äôs carrying on you‚Äôd think the house had turned to a hospital for smallpox. ‚ÄôDeed it wouldn‚Äôt surprise me to see it burnt down any time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat you mean, chile?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you know how much fays like to have jigs move in next door to ‚Äôem.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDeed I do. I remember years ago‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSpecially if it‚Äôs a nice neighborhood. They‚Äôd do most anything to get ‚Äôem out. Look at what they did to that man in Staten Island last fall. Ku-Kluxed him. It was even in the fay papers, how they burnt the man‚Äôs house down while he was out. I believe Miss Cramp is wild enough to do the selfsame thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîor have it done.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave it done‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow you mean?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<em>Pay</em> somebody to do it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBet she‚Äôd offer to pay <em>you</em> to do it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd I bet I‚Äôd smack her from hyeh to yonder, too!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, there‚Äôs plenty of fay toughs around here‚ÅÝ‚Äînot right on this street but near enough‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I bet she could get somebody to get <em>them</em>. Then she wouldn‚Äôt be suspected. Everybody‚Äôd think it was like that house on 149th Street somebody put dynamite under.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDidn‚Äôt you read about it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was in The Black Issue‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, a long time ago now. Man bought a house on 149th Street and they dared him to move in. Sent letters and all. But he went on in. And less‚Äôn a week after he moved in, they blew him out‚ÅÝ‚Äîbajooey!‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust like that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell I never in all my life!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDeed they did. And Miss Cramp is worried and mad and everything. You ought to ‚Äôve heard her last night talking to this southern woman.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Linda decidedly had the floor now and she did not intend to relinquish it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe‚Äôs from some little dump in Maryland, but she swears she lives in Baltimore‚ÅÝ‚Äîas if even that was anything to brag about. She‚Äôs just like Miss Cramp, only more so. Well, you know one time Miss Cramp asked me a lot o‚Äô dumb questions about shines and I gave her a lot o‚Äô dumb answers and she went and joined the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.I.A.</abbr> to find out for herself. And for doing it!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSay what?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLast night she was telling this other one all about it, and I mean they just carried on. Miss Cramp says, ‚ÄòMy dear, I‚Äôm in the most awful trouble‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou simply must tell me what to do.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis other one is the funniest thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîtalks like a jig fresh from down home. First time I ever heard a fay talk like a shine‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was never so surprised‚ÅÝ‚ÄîShe says, ‚ÄòDeed, honey, with all yo‚Äô money Ah cain‚Äôt imagine what could worry you.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen Miss Cramp says, ‚ÄòIf something isn‚Äôt done pretty quick this whole neighborhood‚Äôs going black!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat?‚Äô says this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝParmalee‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs the other one.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAnd that isn‚Äôt the worst of it,‚Äô Miss Cramp sniffles. ‚ÄòThe worst of it is that <em>I‚Äôll</em> get the <em>blame</em> for it.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòYou‚Äôll get the blame fo‚Äô it?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòI‚Äôm not responsible, really. But I got int‚Äôrested in the welfare of Negroes and joined a mixed organization for the improvement of conditions among them, you know. Well, naturally, I had to go about among them‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAh‚Äôve always tole yuh yo‚Äô cha‚Äôity‚Äôd get y‚Äô in trouble.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWell it certainly has. I went, on a friend‚Äôs advice too, to see how they acted in their own surroundings and there were both white and colored people in the box with me‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAnd one of them was the man that has bought a house almost next <em>door</em> to me here on Court Avenue‚ÅÝ‚Äîand Irene, he intends to <em>live</em> in it!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd Irene says, just like a jig for the world‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄòWell, bless mah soul!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòBut my dear,‚Äô says Miss Cramp, ‚Äòthat isn‚Äôt the worst of it. You can‚Äôt imagine. My dear, I asked him to call!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòYou what!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòI thought he was white. He looked like it. He‚Äôs blonder than I am.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòHow‚Äôd you find out he wasn‚Äôt?‚Äô says Irene.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòSomeone else told me after he‚Äôd gone.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWell, Agatha,‚Äô says Irene, ‚Äòif you didn‚Äôt have no better sense‚Äôn to invite a strange man to call‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòBut he was so nice, Irene‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAgatha!‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòI mean‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou wouldn‚Äôt have suspected, yourself. And, Irene, he swore he was coming, too.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòYou don‚Äô mean you ackshally think he will?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhy won‚Äôt he?‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòA nigger ought to know better.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWell, this is New York, you know.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAh don‚Äô care what this is‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAnyway, suppose neighbors of mine see my name on the literature of this organization. As soon as this man moves in, I‚Äôll be accused.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝParmalee looks real evil and says, ‚ÄòHe wouldn‚Äôt move in down in Balt‚Äômo‚Äô City, I bet y‚Äô.‚Äô‚Ää‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòHe will here though,‚Äô Miss Cramp says. ‚ÄòAnd if he does, I declare I‚Äôll move out. I couldn‚Äôt bear the shame.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòThought you so anxious t‚Äô uplift ‚Äôem?‚Äô Irene says, and I nearly split.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWell,‚Äô answers Agatha, ‚Äòit‚Äôs one thing to help them and quite another to live beside them as equals. And to have everyone in the street blaming me‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI simply couldn‚Äôt bear it.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòMean to move?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòWhat else‚ÅÝ‚Äî?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòMove all these hyeh beautiful old things you‚Äôve accumulated and yo‚Äô daddy befo‚Äô yuh? Leave this house he left yuh, where you‚Äôve lived all yo‚Äô life? Mean to jes‚Äô get up and walk out and do nothin‚Äô else at all?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòBut that‚Äôs why I‚Äôm telling you, Irene. What else <em>can</em> I do?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄòAh‚Äôll tell yuh what else you can do. You can‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô Then she stops a minute and says in a lower voice, ‚ÄòThat maid o‚Äô yours likely to be eavesdroppin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äî?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo of course then I had to catch air. Certainly wish I knew what she told her to do.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The oppression of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller‚Äôs compulsory silence together with the emotions excited by what she had heard by this time had her in the throes of dyspnea. She panted and gasped while Linda paused to look on with curiosity and some alarm. The girl‚Äôs apprehension cost her the floor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKnow what you ought to do?‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller managed to get in; to which there was but one thing to say:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou ought to refuse to stay in that woman‚Äôs house another minute. You ought to up and leave.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd go where?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAin‚Äôt you got‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller stopped short, struck with a notion. The notion flowered into an idea. She grinned a half-moon grin, scalloped with tiny lesser half-moons, drew breath prodigiously, and delivered herself:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúChile, I‚Äôm go‚Äôn‚Äô need a maid right hyeh. I done told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMerrit already, and he say soon‚Äôs he come in town it‚Äôd be all right. Y‚Äôsee we been livin‚Äô in a ‚Äôpartment all along and ‚Äôtwasn‚Äôt but six rooms and I could take care of everything with a little day help, but now with all this house it‚Äôs go‚Äôn‚Äô be too much for one pair of hands to tend too much fo‚Äô me and I don‚Äô feel none too good nohow so <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMerrit say it‚Äôll be fine and to get a good girl and make sho‚Äô she ain‚Äôt too ugly ‚Äôcause he didn‚Äô want his stomach turned, and bless my soul if I ain‚Äôt forgot all about it till this very minute. Now if you ain‚Äô got no objection to workin‚Äô fo‚Äô y‚Äôown people, he‚Äôs a fine man to work fo‚Äô and‚Äôll never give you no trouble‚ÅÝ‚Äîleast, not about yo‚Äô work. ‚ÄôCose you kinda pretty fo‚Äô a maid, but I reckon you can take good care o‚Äô yo‚Äôse‚Äôf, and anyhow he‚Äôs a gen‚Äôleman. So hyeh‚Äôs a job ready and waitin‚Äô fo‚Äô you if you want it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow much?‚Äù said Linda. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm getting eighteen‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs pretty good, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShuh, chile, he‚Äôd give you twenty‚ÅÝ‚Äîjes‚Äô to be givin‚Äô you mo‚Äôn you been gettin‚Äô. He pays me twenty-five‚ÅÝ‚Äîand says it‚Äôs a heap cheaper‚Äôn marryin‚Äô, but I jes‚Äô tells ‚Äôim he needn‚Äô hint at me like that ‚Äôcause they‚Äôs some things he couldn‚Äô pay me to do‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTwenty dollars!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSho, chile. All I got to do is tell ‚Äôim‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Linda jumped up. ‚ÄúYou mean it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMean ev‚Äôry word of it and you‚Äôd have lots mo‚Äô time to yo‚Äôse‚Äôf, too.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHonest? Do you think‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù An old ambition raised its head‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúDo you think maybe I could go to night school sometimes and learn to run a typewriter?‚Äù</p>
			<p>This time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller stopped breathing altogether. ‚ÄúDo which?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want to be a <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">K.M.</abbr> all my life.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAimin‚Äô to better yo‚Äôse‚Äôf, huh?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Linda was afraid she had made the wrong move here, but it was too late to change. She nodded with exaggerated vigor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGlory be!‚Äù was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller‚Äôs surprising comment. ‚ÄúGlad to see it, chile, glad to see it. Does me good to see one our young girls what wants to better herse‚Äôf. Our girls ain‚Äôt got no ambition, no ambition ‚Äôtall, ‚Äôceptin‚Äô to go on the stage or dance in a cabaret or some such thing as that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There followed a lengthy dissertation on the laziness of ‚Äúour‚Äù girls, to which Linda listened, eagerly impatient. Finally <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFuller perorated with:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDeed, chile, that‚Äôs fine and I‚Äôm glad to see it and I‚Äôll help you all I can‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou can get off mos‚Äô every night‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I bet <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝFred‚Äôll give you all the encouragement in the world‚ÅÝ‚Äîand maybe one them typewritin‚Äô things to boot. Well, want to try it? You can start soon‚Äôs he get back. How ‚Äôbout it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow ‚Äôbout it?‚Äù Linda exulted. ‚ÄúHow ‚Äôbout it?‚ÅÝ‚ÄîOh boy!‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
